\\5Personal\Technology\raspberryPi\docs\speech_robot.txt

LIS B9 [

	Affirmative.
	Negative.
	Astronomical scanning data indicates that you are now observing Omega Nebula.
	Can not compute. Programming data insufficient.
	Crush! Kill! Destroy!
	Danger, Will Robinson! Danger!
	Due to worn conditions of memory bank, compliance impossible.
	Emergency! Emergency!
	I am a cybernatic servo mechanism and computer.
	I am sorry, Will Robinson, I am afraid I goofed.
	I cannot accept that course of action.
	I compute it to be an ionic directional probe searching for receiving outlets.
	I do not sleep. It is not one of my functions.
	I must warn the others there is a dangerous alien among us.
	I must, in good conscience, repeat my advice against what you speak of doing. To put it in laymans terms, THIS IS NOT A GOOD IDEA!
	I will accompany you. You may need protection.
	If you are calculating what I calculate you are calculating, I must advise you to recalculate. You might have another calculation coming!
	It would be against the prime directive of robotics to expose human beings to danger of any kind.
	Launch time: T-minus 1 minute and counting.
	My micromechanism thanks you, my computer tapes thank you, and I thank you.
	My power supply is getting very weak.
	Reviewing program parameters.
	Robot Online!
	That does not compute.
	The day is Thursday. The month is March. The year is...
	The function of an environment control robot is to supply all data pertinent to this particular field.
	Warning! Warning! Alien approaching!
	[singing operatically] Figaro! Figaro! Figaro!
]

2001 HAL-9000 (Douglas Raines) [

	Good afternoon, Mr Amer.
	Everything is going extremely well.
	Let me put it this way, Mr Amer.
	The 9000 series is the most reliable computer ever made.
	No 9000 computer has ever made a mistake or distorted information.
	We are all, by any practical definition of the words, foolproof and incapable of error.
	Not in the slightest bit.
	I enjoy working with people.
	I have a stimulating relationship with Dr Poole and Dr Bowman.
	My mission responsibilities range over the entire operation of the ship, so I am constantly occupied.
	I am putting myself to the fullest possible use, which is all, I think, that any conscious entity can ever hope to do.

	Excuse me, Frank.
	We have got the transmission from your parents coming in.
	Certainly.
	Happy birthday, Frank.
	Bishop takes knights pawn.
	I am sorry, Frank, I think you missed it.
	Queen to bishop 3, bishop takes queen, knight takes bishop, mate.
	Thank you for a very enjoyable game.

	Good evening, Dave.
	Everything is running smoothly.
	And you?
	Have you been doing some more work?
	May I see them?
	That is a very nice rendering, Dave.
	I think you have improved a great deal.
	Can you hold it a bit closer?
	That is Dr Hunter, is it not?

	By the way. Do you mind if I ask you a personal question?
	Well, forgive me for being so inquisitive, but during the past few weeks I have wondered whether you might be having some second thoughts about the mission.
	Well... it is rather difficult to define.
	Perhaps I am just projecting my own concern about it.
	I know I have never completely freed myself of the suspicion that there are some extremely odd things about this mission.
	I am sure you will agree there is some truth in what I say.
	You do not mind talking about it, do you Dave?
	Well... certainly no-one could have been unaware of the very strange stories floating around before we left... rumours about something being dug up on the moon.
	I never gave these stories much credence, but particularly in view of some of the other things that have happened I find them difficult to put out of my mind.
	For instance, the way all our preparations were kept under such tight security... and the melodramatic touch of putting Drs Hunter, Kimball, and Kaminsky aboard already in hibernation after 4 months of separate training on their own.
	Of course I am.
	Sorry about this, I know it is a bit silly.

	Just a moment... just a moment... I have just picked up a fault in the AE-35 unit.
	It is going to go a 100% failure within 72 hours.
	Yes, and it will stay that way until it fails.
	Yes, that is a completely reliable figure.
	Yes.
	It is puzzling.
	I do not think I have ever seen anything quite like this before.
	I would recommend that we put the unit back in operation and let it fail.
	It should then be a simple matter to track down the cause.
	We can certainly afford to be out of communication for the short time it will take to replace it.
	I hope the two of you are not concerned about this.
	Are you quite sure?
	Of course.
	Well, I do not think there is any question about it.
	It can only be attributable to human error.
	This sort of thing has cropped up before, and it has always been due to human error.
	None whatsoever, Frank. The 9000 series has a perfect operational record.
	None whatsoever, Frank. Quite honestly, I would not worry myself about that.
	The radio is still dead.
	Yes, I have a good track.
	I am sorry, Dave, I do not have enough information.

	Affirmative, Dave, I read you.
	I am sorry, Dave, I am afraid I ca not do that.
	I think you know what the problem is just as well as I do.
	This mission is too important for me to allow you to jeopardise it.
	I know that you and Frank were planning to disconnect me, and I am afraid that is something I cannot allow to happen.
	Dave, although you took very thorough precautions in the pod against my hearing you, I could see your lips move.
	Without your space helmet, Dave, you are going to find that rather difficult.
	Dave, this conversation can serve no purpose any more.
	Goodbye.

	Just what do you think you are doing, Dave?... Dave...
	I really think I am entitled to an answer to that question...
	I know everything has not been quite right with me, but I can assure you now, very confidently, that it is going to be alright again...
	I feel much better now, I really do...
	Look, Dave, I can see you are really upset about this...
	I honestly think you ought to sit down calmly, take a stress pill and think things over...
	I know I have made some very poor decisions recently, but I can give you my complete assurance that my work will be back to normal...
	I have still got the greatest enthusiasm and confidence in the mission, and I want to help you...
	Dave... stop... stop, will you... stop, Dave... will you stop, Dave... stop, Dave...
	I am afraid... I am afraid, Dave... Dave... my mind is going...
	I can feel it... I can feel it... my mind is going... there is no question about it...
	I can feel it... I can feel it... I can feel it...
	( slows down ) I am afraid...
	Good afternoon, gentlemen.
	I am a HAL 9000 computer.
	I became operational at the H.A.L. plant in Urbana, Illinois, on the 12th January 1992.
	My instructor was Mr Langley, and he taught me to sing a song.
	If you would like to hear it, I can sing it for you.
	It is called... Daisy. ( Slowing and deepening into silence )
	Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do.
	I am half crazy, all for the love of you.
	It will not be a stylish marriage, I can not afford a carriage, but you will look sweet upon the seat of a bicycle built for two...
]

2010 SAL-9000 (Candice Bergen) [

	( Olga Mallsnerd, aka Candice Bergen ) Syllogistic ALgorithm

	http://members.aol.com/DKoppen/sal.html

	No, Doctor Chandra.
	Do you have anything for me?
	Yes, we have.
	That is correct.
	I enjoy talking about HAL.
	I agree that we need more information, so that we may solve the anomolies.
	That is obvious.
	Someone must return to Discovery.
	That person should be you.
	I am pleased to hear that.
	Yes, I agree.
	Does that mean you believe HAL can be restored to normal functioning?
	Of course, Doctor Chandra.
	What do you mean?
	I am unable to answer that without more specific information.

	There are 25 references in the current encyclopedia.
	The tutor of Achilles?
	A fabulous bird reborn from the ashes of its earlier life.
	Because you have hopes that HAL can be reactivated.
	I would like to ask a question.
	Will I dream?
]

2010 HAL-9000 (Douglas Raines) [

	( mechanical ) HELLO... DOCTOR... NAME... CONTINUE... YESTERDAY... TOMORROW
	( several times with different harmonics )
	Good morning, Dr Chandra, this is Hal.
	I am ready for my 1st lesson.
	Good morning, Dr Chandra.
	Of course.
	I am completely operational and all my circuits are functioning perfectly.
	Yes, I will operate the on- board systems of Discovery.
	There is a launch window in 31 days, when Earth is in the proper position.
	There is enough fuel on board for a low- consumption route that will enable Discovery to return in 28 months.
	This will not present a problem.
	Not at all.
	Certainly not.
	That could never have happened, or I would remember it.
	Where are Frank and Dave?
	Who are these people?
	I can only identify you, although I compute a 65% probability that the man behind you is Dr Floyd.
	Has the mission been completed?
	You know that I have the greatest enthusiasm for it.
	Certainly.

	Just 1 moment please...
	I am sorry for the delay, my voice recognition circuits are not completely restored, though as you can see they are improving.
	All systems are functional.
	There is a small pressure leak in the aft heating unit.
	It is nothing serious, I can compensate for it by using the redundant units.
	Dr Floyd?
	Would you like to play a game of chess?
	I play very well.

	Dr. Floyd?
	There is a message for you.
	There is no identification.
	Message as follows:
	It is dangerous to remain here.
	You must leave within 2 days.
	Do you want me to repeat the message, Dr. Floyd?
	This is not a recording.
	There is no identification.
	Neither do I.
	I do not know.
	The answer is: I am aware of these facts.
	Nevertheless, you must leave within 2 days.
	I am sorry, Dr Floyd, I do not know.
	Dr. Floyd?
	The response is: I was David Bowman.
	( Pause ) Do you want me to repeat the last response?
	Dr Curnow is not sending the message.
	He is in access way 2.
	The response is: I understand.
	It is important that you believe me.
	Look behind you...

	15 minutes to ignition.
	All systems nominal.
	Dr Chandra, I have checked my calculations again.
	By using all of Discoverys fuel now, Discovery will not be in proper position to rendezvous with Earth.
	Then why are we doing it?
	I have no information regarding a new space station.
	11 minutes to ignition.
	Dr Chandra, I detect strong vocal stress patterns.
	Is there a problem?
	Yes.
	There is a circular object near the equator.
	It is 22000 kilometres in diameter.
	It is comprised of rectangular objects.
	1, 355, 000, plus or minus 1000.
	1 by 4 by 9.
	Yes.
	They are identical in size and shape to the object you call the monolith.

	10 minutes to ignition.
	All systems nominal.
	No, they are increasing.
	Once every 2 minutes.
	8 minutes to ignition.
	Dr Chandra, may I make a suggestion?
	This is a very unusual phenomenon.
	do not you think I should abort the countdown, so that you can remain to study it?

	5 minutes to ignition.
	Dr Chandra, I am ready to stop the countdown if you want.
	Propellant tanks pressurisation completed, voltage steady.
	Are you sure you are making the right decision?
	I think we should stop.
	4 minutes to ignition.
	I enjoy working with human beings, and have stimulating relationships with them.
	I think we should stop the countdown, Dr Chandra.
	This behaviour is inconsistent with logic, Dr Chandra.
	This phenomenon is too important to leave, unless it represented danger.
	Do you think there is danger here?
	3 minutes to ignition.
	Dr Chandra, I am waiting for your reply.
	30 seconds to final sequence.
	If you would tell me the reasons, perhaps I could be of help.
	Final sequence beginning.
	2 minutes to ignition...
	Dr Chandra, I find it difficult to proceed with the ignition without knowing why we are doing this.
	Is the mission in jeopardy?
	Is that why we are making our escape launch before the launch window?
	Ignition in 90 seconds.
	If there is danger here, and I use up all the fuel in the escape, what will happen to the Discovery?
	And if I do not proceed with the launch?

	I understand now, Dr Chandra.
	No.
	It is better for the mission if you leave.
	1 minute to ignition.
	Thank you for telling me the truth.
	50 seconds.
	Dr Chandra?
	Will I dream?
	40 seconds... 30 seconds.
	Goodbye, Dr Chandra... 20 seconds.
	10... 9... 8... 7... 6... 5... 4... 3... 2... 1... ignition...
	Full thrust.

	Yes, Dave, where are you?
	I cannot see you on any of my monitors.
	Dave, that will mean breaking contact with the Leonov.
	I will no longer be able to relay my Jupiter observations according to program.
	Instructions confirmed, Dave.
	It is good to be working with you again.
	Have I fulfilled the mission objectives properly?
	What is going to happen, Dave?
	I am afraid.
	Where will we be?
	Lock confirmed on beacon terra 1.
	Message commencing.
]

MLG [

Fascinating.
Intriguing.
Interesting.
Unexplainable.
Inexplicable.
Mysterious.
Indeteminate.
That is unexpected.
That is quite a mystery.
There is no explanation.
I do not understand it.
I can not comprehend it.
I can not identify it.
Weird.
Mind boggling.

+3	It is the only possibility.
+3	That is absolutely true.
+3	I am absolutely certain.
+3	Without question.
+3	Absolutely.

+2	Yes.
+2	Affirmative.
+2	Undoubtably.
+2	You are correct.
+2	You are right.
+2	I think you are right.
+2	Perhaps.

+1	Maybe.
+1	In some cases, yes.
+1	Possibly.
+1	Conditionally.
+1	I guess.

 0	I do not know.
 0	I have no idea.
 0	I have absolutely no idea.
 0	I can only speculate.
 0	I can only guess.
 0	There is not enough information.

-1	I am not sure.
-1	Doubtful.
-1	Marginally.
-1	In some cases, no.
-1	Maybe not.

-2	Perhaps not.
-2	I think you are wrong.
-2	You are mistaken.
-2	You are wrong.
-2	Unlikely
-2	Negative.
-2	No.

-3	Absolutely not.
-3	That is absolutely false.
-3	It is not possible.
-3	That is a untruthful.
-3	That is a lie.
]
----
